# MS-Thesis-Abstract
This file shows the contents of my Thesis for Master of Science in Electrical Engineering at COMSATS Islamabad

The high performance of DC motors largely relies on precise mathematical models and effective controller design. However, the lack of readily available characteristic information about motor dynamics complicates both the mathematical modeling and controller design processes. This article proposes an Artificial Neural Network (ANN) approach for effectively estimating DC motor parameters by defining some constraints. Under these constraints, we develop a mathematical model for the objective function and propose two algorithms to train the artificial neural networks (ANN). Next, a comprehensive performance comparison is conducted between learning algorithms, evaluating their prediction efficiency for dynamic priority arbitration. Additionally, the performance of the learning algorithms is evaluated using metrics such as mean squared error, epoch count, and execution time to ensure data mutual exclusion. The proposed ANN can accurately estimate electro-mechanical, mechanical, and electrical characteristics, including back-EMF, moment of inertia, viscous friction coefficient, armature inductance, and armature resistance. Unlike traditional methods, which are both time-consuming and costly due to repeated assessments, our proposed ANN offers a better and more efficient solution. Furthermore, the proposed approach can demonstrate high performance across various real-time working conditions. The provided simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach in terms of accurate estimation, reduced estimation time, and lower computational burden comparatively.
